Next we'll look at Spearman's correlation coefficient,
and with Spearman's correlation coefficient,
we're working with ranks.
So, everything about Spearman's is a rank.
So, this gives you an example of what those ranks would look like.
So, the rank values here are one
through seven even though the raw values are negative three through three.
So this is the smallest,
so it gets a rank of one,
and this is the second smallest, so it gets a rank of two.
So, you can see that just uses this rank function.
Then, if you look at the formula,
it looks a lot like what we just did except for
these little r's floating around and that's because essentially,
what we're going to do is we're going to change our original array
to a ranked version of that array before we apply any formulas to it.
Great. So, if we want to do Spearman's correlation coefficient,
I'm just going to x.rank and y equals y.rank.
So, if we calculate the ranks first,
then x and y are being held as the ranked versions of them,
and then essentially this should just look like exactly what we did up here.
I should make this pretty straightforward.
So, we'll take the mean.
X is now the ranked version,
y is the ranked version.
We'll take the differences.
It's like this. We'll calculate
the same standard deviation things in the denominator. I think that should work.
So, it looks like we got everything right there.
Now, a couple of questions about why this is important.
If when x increases,
y also increases, will Spearman's correlation be one.
And that's actually true. All right.
So, spearman's correlation is a measure of that two things move monotonically.
That is, they always move in
the same direction or do they not move in the same direction,
whereas Pearson's correlation is do they move linearly, exactly linearly.
So, for all cases where Pearson's is one,
Spearman will also be one.
But that's not true vice versa.
For all cases where Spearman is one,
Pearson is not necessarily one.
If when x increases by one and this decreases,
this is also true and this last one is also true.
So, all of these are monotonic changes,
and therefore, for all of them Spearman's will be true.